# Import and deposit

::: warning NOTE
This documentation is a work in progress and is incomplete.

Please contact developers for more details.
:::

[[toc]]

Options for import or deposit of variants and/or samples.

## Import

[TODO]

- File: `ella_config.yml` (set by `ELLA_CONFIG` [env variable](/technical/production.html#setup-environment))
- Key: `import` 

Subkey	|	Explanation |   Values
:---	|	:---    |	:---
`automatic_deposit_with_sample_id`  |   [TODO]  |   `True` / `False`
`preimport_script`  |   [TODO]  |   [path]

### Analysis watcher for automated import

[TODO: Further details needed]

ELLA can be configured with an analysis watcher for automated import of analyses, optionally with whitelist and/or blacklist arguments. These can be provided as command line arguments (`--whitelist`/`--blacklist`) or files (`--whitelistfile`/`--blacklistfile`), where command line arguments take precedence. File paths default to the environment variables `ELLA_WATCHER_WHITELISTFILE`/`ELLA_WATCHER_BLACKLISTFILE`. 

If arguments are passed in `--whitelist`/`--blacklist`, they should be provided as space-separated [Python regex](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html) patterns. If files are passed, patterns should be line-separated.

If a whitelist is provided (as either file or command line argument), any folder name in `ANALYSES_INCOMING` (see [Setup environment](/technical/production.html#setup-environment)) must match _one_ (or more) of the whitelist patterns. If a blacklist is provided, and the folder name does not match _any_ of the patterns in the blacklist, the analysis watcher will attempt to import it.

::: tip TIP
Changes in command line arguments require a restart of the analysis watcher to take effect, whereas changes in whitelist/blacklist files will be re-read before every check of `ANALYSIS_INCOMING`, and therefore do not require a restart.
:::

## Deposit

Processes that should be run when new analyses are deposited into ELLA, configured per [user group](/technical/users.html#user-groups). See `/src/vardb/testdata/usergroups.json` for examples.  

- File: `usergroups.json` (see [user groups](/technical/users.html#user-groups))
- Key: `config.deposit.analysis`

Subkey	|	Explanation |   Values
:---	|	:---    |	:---
`pattern`   |   What analysis name should be matched for this configuration block (e.g. search for user group specific parts in analysis names).    |   [regex]
`postprocess`   |  Processes that should be applied after analyses have been loaded into ELLA.  |   `analysis_not_ready_warnings`: Places analyses that includes variants that need verification or have warnings generated by the pipeline in the "Not ready" section on the OVERVIEW page. <br>`analysis_finalize_without_findings`: Analyses that have no variants that need further work (only benign, no technical issues) are automatically finalized, without any user interaction. <br>`analysis_tag_all_classified`: Adds an OVERVIEW comment automatically for the following conditions: `ALL CLASSIFIED` when all variants are already classified and still valid; `NO VARIANTS` when there are no non-filtered variants.
`prefilter` |   Whether to prefilter this analysis (e.g. high-frequent variants), useful for limiting resource use for large gene panels. Note that these will not be available in the "FILTERED" variants list.    | See [Pre-filter](/technical/filtering.html#pre-filter-before-import).

::: warning NOTE
Only one user group and one configuration can match any given analysis name.
:::

## Default import gene panel

Gene panel that should be pre-selected when importing data through the [IMPORT function](/manual/data-import-reanalyses.html#import-variant-data), configured per [user group](/technical/users.html#user-groups). See `/src/vardb/testdata/usergroups.json` for examples. : 

- File: `usergroups.json` (see [user groups](/technical/users.html#user-groups))
- Key: `default_import_genepanel`
- Value: `[gene panel name], [version]`